### 3.6: European digital identity wallets and their relationship to credentials

The timing of Open Badges’ shift to Verifiable Credentials and the milestones of development in the European eIDAS ecosystem pose opportunities for exploration but also risks for market fragmentation. Outside of Edubadges, SURF has been engaging in some investigation of the wallet ecosystem developments looking toward solidification of European digital identity frameworks.

SURF has explored some partnership with the [IRMA wallet](https://irma.app/) (“I Reveal My Attributes”). IRMA has been explored to give SURF an idea of how wallets work. When this exploration began, it was a possibility that IRMA would be one of the wallets selected as an EU-wide reference wallet for the upcoming eIDAS 2.0 framework, but ultimately IRMA didn’t win the contract. The Dutch government is obligated to provide a digital identity wallet for citizens, and the IRMA wallet will likely be a base for this next step, as developers ensure it conforms to the eIDAS requirements. However, the eIDAS 2.0 ecosystem serves more than just learning credential use cases, and the IRMA wallet does not use Verifiable Credentials suitable for OB 3.0 to be transmitted, and other pieces of the tech stack around learner identifiers, claim description.

Wallet integration will likely continue to be explored supporting other projects at SURF. For instance, authentication may support wallet apps as one potential replacement for usernames and passwords in federated login systems, or in support of MFA (multi-factor authentication) requirements. Just as institutional affiliations are made available to Edubadges via the federated login system, identifiers from wallets may also be available. In some cases these could be used as a recipient identifier within OB 3.0 credentials. Exploring the user experience for wallet users is the focus of existing pilots, and insights here may be later applicable when it comes to choosing how to integrate Edubadges with wallets for the communication of learning achievements.

One factor that has familiarized users with the experience of wallet apps is that in response to the COVID pandemic, Dutch citizens had to use government ID each and every time to obtain and display vaccination proofs, so a broad and diverse range of people used these technologies and became more familiar with the user experience. This may make wallet integration for learning credentials less daunting for integrations with Edubadges.

There are a large number of issues and challenges being investigated at SURF relating to wallet apps. Sometimes these challenges are directly related to educational credentials, such as identifying use cases for the delivery of diplomas or other certificates to students who are citizens of other European countries who want those credentials in the wallet app approved by their own country. Others include the confirmation of identity and active student status for the provision of student discounts or other benefits.

There are unknowns around future government regulation in this space. For example, the ability to issue credentials that flow into certain wallets may require registration via trust authorities that restrict that registration to certain types of institutions or legal entities. These regulations may either attempt to force educational institutions into a particular ecosystem or delay their ability to participate in an ecosystem that purports to serve education-to-employment use cases. It’s an open question as to whether SURF and national institutions will be directly forced to issue credentials into nationally approved digital identity wallets. [DUO](https://duo.nl/), which is responsible for safekeeping of officially issued credentials like diplomas from accredited organizations, will certainly be involved, because the official documents they are responsible for are key to “Educational credentials and professional qualifications” use cases identified for European digital identity framework support. SURF member institutions are on the periphery. It is possible that there may be a requirement that these institutions’ data is included in government-recommended wallet, but this requirement may be satisfied easily because diplomas kept by DUO may already be supported and carry the essential information. Open Badges could then be integrated with this system at a later date, when the value of their presence justifies an integration and the procedure for integration becomes more clear.

Core SURF use cases outside of Edubadges exist around transferring records of courses completed from European institutions outside of the Netherlands, separate from the final credential system. The eIDAS wallet and EBSI trust frameworks identify “qualified” and non-qualified issuers. It is unclear how regulations might limit or enable the non-qualified niche, whether they’ll actually be able to be verifiable by wallets). Some data might be able to go anywhere, but some data might be restricted. Professional certifications are an identified category of credential important for interactions in the real world, such as governmental license checks for forklift driver certifications.

It is wise for SURF to develop options for integration with wallets in the European digital identity ecosystem, but rushing into integration with a wallet that seems promising today may yield little compatibility with credentials already issued at SURF (including Edubadges) and will do little to inoculate against the necessity of follow-up work to enable credentials to flow to the not-yet-established destinations where they will need to travel in 5 years.


---

| [Back to Index](ob3-edubadges/README.md)   | [Back to Chapter 3: The Open Badges and Digital Credentials Landscape](ob3-edubadges/30-the-open-badges-and-digital-credentials-landscape.md) |    [Next Chapter 3.2: 1EdTech specification process](ob3-edubadges/32-1edtech-specification-process.md) |
| :--- |  :---:  | ---: |