### 5.6: ORCA - Open Recognition Community App

There is an opportunity for SURF, Skybridge Skills, and other partners to collaborate on the launch of a shared open source package responsible for core signing functions. If we could build an OB3 issuing microservice that is much smaller than `edubadges-server`, it would be easier for collaborators to audit for security as open source software. Skybridge Skills and partners are planning to produce an open source library called the Open Recognition Community App, or “ORCA”. It is intended to be a lightweight and secure service that offers an opinionated way to do OB3 for quick expansion of real-world interoperablity among an ecosystem of partner products that integrate with ORCA.

ORCA is software designed by and for a subset of the Open Badges community that focuses on the idea of open recognition. See the [Open Recognition Alliance](https://openrecognition.org), for some more information about the values that animate this movement. Some software features will be designed to support workflows like self-claiming of badges by recipients, and peer endorsement. But it can also be managed by a single “issuer coordinator” application (like Edubadges) that triggers awards as needed.

The scope of the ORCA concept is planned to be approximately:

*   Create/Read/Update/Destroy: Issued badges (OpenBadgeCredentials/Assertions)
*   Create/Read/Update/Destroy: Defined credential templates (Achievements/BadgeClasses)
*   Enforce automated governance rules and capability authorization around credentials, enforced via API requests
*   Perform DID Resolution
*   Execute cryptographic signing (by requesting a signature from a KMS using a HSM, when possible)
*   Respond to credential status requests (revocation list, and/or refresh service)
*   Serve a public UI that offers a catalog of the issuer’s achievements (optionally activated)
*   Serve an authenticated UI that offers wallet integration workflows, badge claiming, credential management (optionally activated)
*   Serve an API compatible with the evolving [VC-API](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api/) spec draft.
*   Implement the VC-API components for [Verifying](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api/#verifying) and [Presenting](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api/#presenting) as is relevant, to extend the benefits of having a common approach to these ideas among all implementers. Edubadges will be able to rely on ORCA for verification of badges for import, as it now relies on the internal python `openbadges-validator-core` package. Verification with ORCA based on Verifiable Credentials is expected to be much more performant than the previous generation.
*   Provide additional management API endpoints for authorized clients to manage Achievement definitions and governance rules for those achievements on behalf of an issuer organization.
*   Implement the OB 3.0 API in the Issuer role.
*   Enforce permissions for issue requests based on pre-established governance rules. This means implementing a robust Open Badges-specific framework for authorization of issuance requests, so that the badges an institution issues follow from the intent of the administrators of their badge system. But this will develop slowly, and the initial use cases easily support existing Edubadges workflows where the Edubadges application will be granted broad access to trigger the award of any Open Badges type credential. If desirable, Edubadges could expand into other workflows supported by ORCA. For example, it will enable use cases like self-claiming and peer review of badge applications, like when a mentor who has mastered a [Desk Research | Advanced Beginner](https://edubadges.nl/public/A_2ofeNTQrSDk1aIZJ0Mmw) badge could receive notification and approve enrollments for a related [Desk Research | Novice](https://edubadges.nl/public/dsMgz5kuShaLjLPhgYUhmQ) badge. Other badges could be reserved for administrator direct award or delegated to specific staff who might have permission to award them at the API level. ORCA will layer these capabilities onto VC-API above the interoperability basics. The API will not allow clients to award Verifiable Credentials other than Open Badges.
*   Present a branded catalog for each issuer, and relevant links between issuers. The catalog will show all the public Achievements defined by the issuer, as the existing [Edubadges catalog](https://edubadges.nl/public/institutions/oUJA1f0ZTU2HkRirbpM8_Q) currently does. The presence of this feature could allow Edubadges to simplify and drop this feature. The existing Edubadges catalog for an institution could be contributed to ORCA in order to combine and generalize this functionality to all communities that use ORCA in a way compatible with how SURF’s product thinks about badges.
*   Offer an opinionated approach to shared achievement definitions across issuers (see [discussion](#achievement-definitions-in-ob-3.0) in the next chapter), so that we can collaborate as an ecosystem to advance a common approach. Open Badges consumers must be connected to relevant yet-to-be-built trust registries, so that they understand the social validity of specific badges, as awarded by specific issuers.
*   Offer a deployment mode for a single organization context (such as when self-hosted by an institution) or for a multi-tenant environment with robust tenant data segregation, such as with Postgres row-level security or [Solid](https://solidproject.org/). Edubadges would operate as a multi-tenant application serving all of their clients, but could be integrated with self-hosted single-tenant ORCA microservices for other open source implementers of Edubadges.
*   Support federation of non-PII aggregate data between communities as reports made available with [ActivityPub](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/), the federation protocol used by Mastodon.

It is expected that this microservice presents a web application front-end and authenticated API. Edubadges would communicate with the ORCA API to perform actions like issuing badges, verifying badges,

This strategy pays off more in terms of ecosystem development than features. By enabling issuers to get started with OB 3.0 using common implementation choices for the options within the Verifiable Credentials tech stack layer cake, use of the open source tool creates a network of interoperable software at a time in the lifecycle of the specification where real-world interoperability is especially valuable.

Integration with Edubadges could contribute valuable use cases to the such as application of data retention policies for defensible minimization. In addition, when support for European Learning Model schemas is desired by SURF’s partners, Edubadges could offer the mechanism by which Open Badge Achievement and ELM schemas are related.

Because this software is already being planned for 2023 implementation, Edubadges may track the development of this effort and consider if integration with ORCA would be an ideal OB3 implementation strategy that also serves security and simplicity use cases.

#### What factors may de-risk an ORCA microservice implementation strategy?

Depending on unfinished software for an important part of the roadmap is often unwise. ORCA is not complete, and it will not reach a stable 1.0 until 2024. However, several factors may make this less of a risk in this case.

*   The features supporting Edubadges are the core features to build first. It is important in the architecture to firmly establish the use of the system in as lightweight a mode as possible, so core configurations and issuing APIs that support Edubadges will be built first. Edubadges developers can monitor progress and make requests.
*   The market need to deliver credentials in OB 3.0 format is not urgent. There are virtually no consumers ready for badges in this format. So if Edubadges spends its early roadmap on already-known and desired simplifications first, it is in a position to implement ORCA more easily when ORCA is available and tested, or Edubadges may pivot at that point and build pilot OB 3.0 capabilities internally following the guide in the next section. Waiting a few months to learn more about the other implementers in the ecosystem and about ORCA’s category only enables SURF to make a better decision about how to position.
*   An OB 3.0 pilot phase launching at the end of 2023 or the beginning of 2024 will be well-timed to find partners for wallet integration, and potentially consumers as well. Follow participation in the third JFF Plugfest to see if there are any good partners worth recruitment.
*   ORCA is open source and makes use of the low-level verifiable credentials and digital signature libraries necessary to serialize OB 3.0 credentials. The open source libraries available for these signatures are most rapidly developed in JavaScript, and so if Edubadges decided to pivot away from ORCA after investigating it, it may be that the stack Edubadges chose to pivot to actually looked a lot like ORCA, running as a JavaScript microservice. The ORCA implementation of the signing could be copied into Edubadges, resulting in the same choices for several important tech stack layers. Compatibility with programs choosing to use ORCA may open up connections to more potential consumers for edubadges.
*   Edubadges maintains ease of pivoting, reducing risk of commitment to a strategy dependent on external factors. The ORCA API is based on open standards including VC-API, so if ORCA is too specific to fit the needs of Edubadges, any other open source VC-API library could be nearly a drop-in replacement, depending on how deep into integration Edubadges is.
*   The potential benefit of adopting ORCA is high, if the model is close enough to Edubadges architecture. The plan laid out in the next section that could be implemented by Edubadges itself is a near-match to the plan for ORCA OB 3.0 support. This makes it more likely that the ORCA style of implementation of OB 3.0 is a match for Edubadges.
*   The rest of the analysis in this paper is compatible with ORCA, so the closer this paper meets your needs, the more likely it is that ORCA will also offer the right solution.

---

| [Back to Index](ob3-edubadges/README.md)   |  [Previous Chapter 5: Edubadges Architecture Considerations](ob3-edubadges/50-edubadges-architecture-considerations.md) |    [Next Chapter 6: Use Cases in Detail](ob3-edubadges/60-use-cases-in-detail.md) |
| :--- | :---: | ---: |
